
Phase 1: Descriptive Statistics Challenge Course
In the first phase, you’ll have three months to complete this challenge course. You’ll have access to forums moderated by expert Udacity Mentors who can answer your questions and provide guidance. You will also be invited to join a private Slack channel and Facebook group, where you can connect with your peers in the program, share your progress, get feedback and ask questions.

Course Content

CORE CONTENT: Descriptive Statistics
The next set of lessons cover descriptive statistics and is the CORE CONTENT in this challenge course. You are expected to work through this content well within your 3 month timeline.

Don't forget, your performance in the course, in addition to your participation in the forums and Slack community will be factors that contribute to the selection of the top students who will be given scholarships to the Data Foundations, Data Analyst, or Business Analyst Nanodegree programs!

Key Concepts
This course will teach you the basic terms and concepts in statistics as well as guide you through introductory probability.

You will learn how to....
  Use statistical research methods.
  Compute and interpret values like: Mean, Median, Mode, Sample, Population, and Standard Deviation.
  Compute simple probabilities.
  Explore data through the use of bar graphs, histograms, box plots, and other common visualizations.
  Investigate distributions and understand a distributions properties.
  Manipulate distributions to make probabilistic predictions on data.


ADVANCED CONCEPTS
The next set of lessons include an introduction to Python and SQL. These are two important building blocks in the world of data science and will give you a great jumpstart toward your goals.
Top performers will be evaluated according to their performance in the core content as well as participation in the learning community. This section gives you a chance to further stand out in the search for students who will be given scholarships to the Data Foundations, Data Analyst, or Business Analyst Nanodegree programs!

Key Python Concepts
You'll learn...
  fundamentals of the Python programming language, along with programming best practices.
  to represent and store data using Python data types and variables.
  to use conditionals and loops to control the flow of your programs.
  to harness the power of complex data structures like lists, sets, dictionaries, and tuples to store collections of related data.
  to define and document your own custom functions, write scripts, and handle errors.
  to find and use modules in the Python Standard Library and other third-party libraries.

Key SQL Concepts
You'll learn...
  to use Structured Query Language (SQL) to extract and analyze data stored in databases.
  to extract data, join tables together, and perform aggregations.
  to do more complex analysis and manipulations using subqueries, temp tables, and window functions.
  to write efficient SQL queries to successfully handle a variety of data analysis tasks.
